Yskit Synodal Directorate [YSD]

The YSD controls a large, sparsely populated territory of four thousand star systems across the Yskit Constellation, a satellite cluster of dwarf galaxies. Many of its planets were rendered uninhabitable by an old League-Aegis confrontation; across the cluster, the glassed, nanoplague-infected surfaces of countless bodies drift through the nebulae of shattered stars. Despite this, and in part because of it, they have developed a potent, if skewed mastery of subspace and nanoscale systems to deal with the hazardous, resource-scarce environment. Bordering on the theological in practice, their technology grants them limited ability to subvert and influence almost any exposed microprocessing component; their most sophisticated assets allow detection and disruption of artefact activity and, to a limited extent, the influence of AEGIS itself.

Conventional equipment of Directorate make is mediocre at best. Their strengths, both civil and military, lie in their Idols: heavily cyborgised devotees that have pledged their souls and personalities to be used and slowly stripped away via subspace interfaces by the Shogachdjinni, the unthinking machine gods of the Directorate. The Shogachdjinni, beyond the totems they inhabit, exist as constructs of the Sublimated: massive, tangled subspace imprints of idealized narratives rammed into the turbulent borders of the Digital Matrix through carefully orchestrated sacrifices of millions - from individuals in the midst of great works to whole cities mobilized in massive theatric performances. Narratives of production, narratives of protection, narratives of death and destruction, these are the concepts that empower the Idols through which they are made manifest, through which they act upon the people and nanotechnological transducers of the YSD.

The Directorate's ability to access subspace is unsophisticated - crude even, by the standard of the major factions. Their understanding of subspace currents and hyperdimensional technology comes not from careful exploration and analysis, but from the intimate link between Idols and Shogachdjinni; though their ability to traverse subspace is not enhanced as would be by relics of the Navigators, they are capable of drifting its currents for extended periods of time uninterrupted without need for referencing or realigning the course of their vessels. It is due to this ability that the Directorate is able to maintain its comparatively large territory - but the personality degradation of an Idol is heavily accelerated by the strains of subspace travel, rendering many starship-based idols useless within a decade of service.

