------- Scarlet Rains Initiative

Initially triggered by cult activities within system-adjacent Directorate branches collaborating closely with subspace research groups; replacement of the Green Depths Director retrieved from within influence-space of this contamination, resulting in installation of Director Alagarrwa and subsequent destabilisation of the Oonshansat transtellar administrative group as a result of unprecedented subsumption to an unknown djinnic entity.

Standard signs of subspace instability observed within territorial bounds of Oonshansat Transtellar administrative group, as follows:
> Increased rate of interstellar ghost vessel intrusion
> Increased rate of spontaneous infection by xenomalware
> Rapid degradation of relay station / pylon inhabitants
> Confirmed disappearance of shogachdjinn He Who Walks Seven Days in Fallen Water.
> Reduced navigation efficiency; recorded temporal path-length increases on surviving Directorate vessels in region averaging to 28.3%. True mean reduction suspected to be 33.2%.
> Increased rate of [miscellaneous anomaly] occurrence.

Non-standard phenomena attributable to event also observed, examples given:
> Alignment of solar flares across Oonshansat Transtellar towards estimated location of the Last Citadel in scenario where catastrophic breakup did not occur.
> Reappearance of Duandaiisic heraldry and security record formatting in relay stations / pylons fully succumbed to subspace degradation.
> Intermittent realspace acceleration of all Directorate-observed objects within Oonshansat Transtellar administrative group (non-Directorate observations seemingly unaffected) inscribed with the word 'eternal' with forces up to 8.71 micronewtons identified following Directorate recognition of the Oonshansat anomalous cluster.

In collaboration with Sector Administrative Assistant 1880NVL, 1914VCZ and the Naigazash Anomaly Response and Regulation Departmental Authority (NARRDA), the Scarlet Rains Initiative was organized and proposed to the Directorate during the formative First Autumn Procession emergency assembly in 0288 DT. [RRI] was instated as an autonomous lobby within the Directorate in 0290 DT, and officially acknowledged as a Director collective in 0709 DT following the Scaled Queen Transliminal incident.