---- Nracetr the Weaver

Nracetr was a weaver of threads, one of many amongst the fusion of souls she would ultimately become. Tasked with the duty of remembrance, she orchestrated the creation of billions of tapestries to capture the lost as they were in life - rare was the family that retrieved their loved ones in death, in a sky so vast and hostile. She worked tirelessly, day and night; her vision was clear, unique among the stars. Her creations, woven from stone, transcended stillness to depict eternal sleep.

Idols in her workshops often found themselves reflecting, knowing that too little would remain even for Nracetr to trace their likeness - for all their labours, they would not be remembered. Most were quick to accept this fact, and even as they worked to commemorate death, they did not bother to mourn their own. Yet Nracetr, ever ambitious, sought to achieve the impossible - the dreams of the Devoted were lost to the Shogachdjinni in subspace, but perhaps they could be remembered in subspace itself.

She hatched a plan in the form of her Great Lecture: she announced that she had found a way to pass on her gift of remembrance, that all those who wished to Remember were be invited to learn. Hundreds of thousands flocked to the event, hoping to spread her wonders; they served the catalyst for her ascension, burying all but her toil beneath a sea of souls.

---- Opthal Thread

To create opthal thread, the flesh, hair, and posessions of the Navigators are separated and drawn through the spinnerets of Nracetr: massive, elongated factory-stations surrounded by twisting, flailing fibers of mundane and consecrated origin. The thread is spun by the phantasmal fingers of lesser Shogachdjinn, constructs dedicated to Nracetr's memory.

Opthal thread is highly resistant to damage, and conducts both heat and electricity with preternatural ease; its mundane properties warp and shift with time and circumstance, however, making it a poor material for most technological applications. Its primary use is in the creation of functional imagery - sigils and tapestries, layered atop one another to form the hulls of slipspace-worthy vessels.
