note: w for wielded, R for regular, M606 for marine, 6 feet, linkage, 6 feet.
[Skitter. Sweep. Clear!]

.  [ wR.M606 'Cleaner' ]  .
DEPARTMENTS -- YDPi.Ata-9 [Planetary Design Bureau], YDD.DF08 [Directorate Department], YDPi.Zuhak-2 [Planetary Design Bureau]
PURPOSE -- A heavy weapon system for use by local forces and Lighthouse associate departments.
PRIMARY USAGE -- Shipboard; repulsion, containment, destruction of hostiles within hostile or compromised structures, compartments, subsystems.
REQUIREMENTS:
System must be compatible with SMU-standard airlock systems, possess countermeasures and failsafes for subversion/neutralisation by spatial distortion or cyberanomalies, conform to corridor standard SMU9.6(108), pass through or construct means to traverse nonstandard passageways under hostile control, maintain function in temperature ranges 70-400°K environments via passive/emergent means and 15-800°K via active/controlled means, sustain combat in close coordination with infantry, engage armoured targets.
DESCRIPTION:
The weapon system consists of two squat, low-profile compartments 3 metres in length joined by a flexible composite-protected omnidirectional thorax reminiscent of terrestrial isopods. Each compartment is fitted with 6 omnidirectional wheels articulated with compliant electrohydraulic feet (a bit like a hairy string ball), capable of altering their surface to adhere to a wide variety of artificial and natural surfaces; wheels can be replaced with small thruster modules, allowing the vehicle to manoeuvre freely in microgravity environments. The frontal compartment is heavily armoured, containing the reactor, main turret armament, and ammunition. The rear compartment contains a utility bay, an optional crew compartment capable of housing up to two prone individuals, and the bulk of the vehicle's coolant and temperature control systems. Both compartments are capable of semi-independent action; if the front compartment is rendered inoperable, the rear compartment can sever the wreck and retreat to a safe location on battery power.

The main turret is fitted with a 60mm basket-type charge-cannon - synchronised torus charges are generated and set to converge onto a disintegrating skeleton behind a small, subcalibre railgun-injected projectile, generating a shaped plume capable of accelerating it to 50 km/s. It easily defeats thick armour, but quickly loses accuracy beyond 300 metres; a common shell modification places additional projectiles along the waste plasma guides of the cartridge skeleton, effectively serving as supplemental grapeshot at the expense of velocity and accuracy of the main projectile. When no cartridge is loaded, the weapon is capable of firing focused, high-energy plasma blasts capable of shattering brittle structures, vaporising diffuse targets, and disrupting electronics - effective range falls short of 100 metres, but the unique effect and negligible ammunition consumption has led to extensive use in close combat and techplague engagements on other designs. The turret possesses 360° horizontal traverse, (+/-)45° vertical traverse in the frontal 30 degree arc, and roughly (+/-)10° vertical traverse elsewhere - in practice this is extended by rotation of the thorax to (+/-)105° in the 30°-150° horizontal arc. Spark weapons have been considered, but disqualified for their debilitating collateral effect at this scale.

M606 Cleaners will be cheap to manufacture, requiring no specialised parts from interstellar markets or particular fuels. They will be subject to significant variation in quality and construction according to manufacturing capability of local regions. A median industrialised planet in ranked sectors 1-10 will be able to sustainably export 300 M606s annually per million registered workers under Plan F04 mobilisation conditions [Wartime Emergency - free reallocable production metrics].

(for reference: ~16,500 sherman tanks produced per year in WW2, U.S population at 132 million; ~125 tanks anually per million)


note: w for wielded, R for regular, Cc04 for cavalry circular, linkage, 4 feet.
[Turret on wheels, turret on wheels]

.  [ wR.Cc04 'Helot' ]  .
DEPARTMENTS -- YDPi.Zuhak-2 [Planetary Design Bureau]
PURPOSE -- A low-profile light armoured cavalry weapon system for use by the Yliaste Coastal Defense Collective.
PRIMARY USAGE -- Opensky; rapid maneuver, target suppression, and use of mobile force in support of infantry engaged in field battle.
REQUIREMENTS:
System must be compatible with SMV.t45 cargo specification, possess countermeasures and failsafes for subversion/neutralisation by cyberthreats, conform to corridor standard SMU9.10(116), maintain speed of 25 m/s over rough terrain in range 0.03-2.6 sG (standard gravities), maintain function in temperature ranges 70-400°K environments via passive/emergent means and 15-800°K via active/controlled means, sustain combat in close coordination with infantry, engage armoured targets.
DESCRIPTION:
System consists of a singular armoured spheroid-cylindrical compartment 3.2 metres in diameter. The compartment is fitted with 4 variable-compliance mesh-tire omnidirectional wheels, optionally fitted with electroactive tires capable of adhering to a wide variety of artificial and natural surfaces - a weaker counterpart to the wR.M606's ciliated wheels, but robust at higher speeds. The turret takes up much of the upper part of the compartment, containing the weapon system, batteries, inert ammunition, an optional crew compartment with capacity for two seated individuals, and an ejection/scuttling system rated for 25 metres of airborne horizontal travel in 2.6 standard gravities. The lower part of the compartment contains the reactor, cooling system internals, volatile ammunition, turret actuator, and a floor cavity with space for light mine protection, nanoplague ground scramblers, or a jump jet rated for 12m horizontal travel in 0.31 standard gravities.

The main turret is fitted with a twin-linked 46/62mm resonant discharge cannon, using the generation and collapse of plasma-coupled slow waves within the main collector (the large, horizontally-extended box encompassing both barrels) to drive a solid armature. When one barrel is fired, the other acts to hold some of the wasted energy for the next shot. In this way, at 2.3 Hz/28 kmps and 12.9 Hz/1.2 kmps for the 46mm and 62mm barrels, the Cc04 can fire continuously at high efficiency without taxing its comparatively weak power systems - that is, until the autoloader can no longer keep up, limiting bursts to 3 and 8 shots for each barrel. [Note - the 46mm autoloader is much slower due to instabilities from firing interference.] The 62mm barrel is capable of launching simple electronic munitions without scrambling them; the 46mm barrel is not. The turret possesses 360° horizontal traverse and (+/-)25° vertical traverse.

Cc04s can be manufactured in undeveloped or poorly-supplied regions with minimal reduction in quality; localised variants will mainly consist improvements in subsystems, ammunition, and cyber-integration. A median industrialised planet in ranked sectors 1-10 will be able to sustainably export ~1100 Cc04s annually per million registered workers under Plan F04 mobilisation conditions [Wartime Emergency - free reallocable production metrics].


note: he for held, R for regular, Aa4302 for artillery illuminant, 4 feet, body, linkage, system.
[Kneeling before the light, it stood to let out a scream.]

.  [ heR.Ai4302 'Mule' ]  .
DEPARTMENTS -- LTCc.488 [Lighthouse Collective], YDPi.Cagom-1-13 [Starsystem Design Bureau]
PURPOSE -- A heavy anti-object screen vehicle for use by the Yliaste Coastal Defense Collective, the Directorate Containment Initiative, and Lighthouse cell collective no.488.
PRIMARY USAGE -- Opensky; horizon and network warfare, direct fire, electronic support, anti-air and anti-orbital interception and engagement.
REQUIREMENTS:
System must be compatible with SMV.t125 cargo specification, possess countermeasures against subversion/neutralisation by cyberanomalies and electronic threats, maintain partial thermal and radar stealth from long-range surface instruments beyond 50 km in vacuum conditions, maintain speed of 25 m/s over rough terrain in range 0.004-1.2 sG (standard gravities), maintain function in temperature ranges 70-400°K environments via passive/emergent means and 15-800°K via active/controlled means, sustain combat in close coordination with orbital assets.
DESCRIPTION:
System consists of a large quadruped chassis with a 3-section hull 21 metres in length, 4.7 metres in height, 6.5 metres in width. Each leg is constructed from 5 linked sections, with a minimum and maximum extension of 11 and 38 metres while in motion and maintaining a speed of at least 13 m/s. The front hull compartment is taken up by power systems, accumulators, energy weapon components, and the driver and gunner stations. The middle hull compartment contains additional energy weapon components, data processing banks, shield power systems, the command and control room, signal room, and 2 cable-dropped escape pods each capable of holding four prone individuals. The rear hull compartment contains the reactor, living quarters, projectile ammunition, and thermal eigensystems, responsible for enabling the increased power output required to effectively run the heR.Ai's weapon systems. Auxiliary communication and control equipment lines much of the rear deck; the front deck is taken up by the primary weapon mount. Shield projector domes dot the outer hull; they protect the main body and the area beneath in a 50m hemisphere, but are incapable of stopping anti-tank or anti-fortification munitions. The thin shell barely supplements the vehicle's light armour, rather serving as inoculation against blast waves, radiation, diffuse threats, and cyberanomalies targeting it and its accompaniment.

The primary weapon mount of the heR.Ai consists of an articulated, spine-like neck capable of 26 metres of vertical extension, with free horizontal and vertical traverse; when firing recoiling weapons, this is safety-limited to 19m maximum, 3m minimum of vertical extension and a vertical traverse of -4/+75 degrees. When not in use, it folds flat against the hull, reducing the profile of the vehicle and allowing intermittent fire from behind cover. Mounted are two weapons: a conventional 8.4 kmps railgun capable of launching 108mm beam-ablated rocket projectiles, and a high-power laser-guided ion beam: brutally effective against unshielded targets, and powerful enough to overload smaller electromagnetic barriers. The railgun is loaded in the folded position after each shot; it must, however, stay in an upright position to boost its projectile using the ion beam. Arguably of greater importance than both, the arm also mounts advanced sensors and telecommunications equipment - radars, optical, infrared, and radiological telescopes, and high-power broadband microwave transceivers line the heR.Ai's neck, allowing it to serve as a combined mobile command and observation post at the heart of an operation. Though individually a risky proposition due to the heR.Ai's size and relative immobility, a coordinated force can shuffle network control between peeking vehicles as they reposition - a heR.Ai-supported platoon in combat will typically swap signals at least four times within a standard hour.

heR.Ais require a variety of specialised and high-quality components, but share enough in common with space vessels to allow economical construction in most Directorate military shipyards. Production is unlikely to take place outside high-development sectors, and so there is unlikely to be significant variation in durability or quality barring deficiencies in maintenance or supply. A median industrialised planet in ranked sectors 1-10 will be able to sustainably export 2-4 heR.Ais annually per million registered workers under Plan F04 mobilisation conditions [Wartime Emergency - free reallocable production metrics].


note: s for subspace, O for opthal, M4 for marine, four feet.
[Unblooded stones.]

.  [ sO.M4 'Horseman' ]  .
DEPARTMENTS -- YDS.9183 [Director]
PURPOSE -- CLASSIFIED
PRIMARY USAGE -- CLASSIFIED
REQUIREMENTS: Match or exceed unit half-life of 8 hours in type E hostile subspace conditions as defined by Vesselborne Emergencies Regulation SBS655 (0662 DT correction), resist disruption of or actively maintain current velocity over distance of 500 metres with 2-sigma radius 8 metres in type E hostile subspace conditions, possess countermeasures against ||[Accessorate key linked] AEGIS anomalous influence associated with unidentified nanoresponsive elements||, [access level YD.02B and above - read MSG 001].
DESCRIPTION: Inspired by the hellbound Earthmovers from Ultrakill.


== MSG 001 (access level YD.02B required) ==
||GREETINGS DIRECTOR. [BZX9301 Panopticon datalink successful] :: Director Latha, leaving a note. The inclusion of X-class specialised components prevents distributed production of third consensus [Seven Days in Fallen Water] standard. Be extra thorough in checking for iconographic manifestations targeted by [Scarlet Rains]; we cannot risk contamination of this asset. It is unavoidable that our greatest weapons in this theatre resemble that of a past age, and [posted: 49 years ago]||