Personal Equipment :: Directorate Armoury

[wordgen: snap, popcorn, flint, spark, pop, pip, snap, crack, hiss, squeak, squeal, wheeze, bark, shine, blast, lance, lice, flea, channel, channeltrap, channel, flash, crackle, buzzer, blitz, warbler, banshee, singer, wailer, mourner, screamer, screech, crow, bulb, ampulse, hipulse/hypulse, spread, prism, highlight, holo, trans, async, converger, screen, filter, select, channel]

.  Channel Weapons  .

Most laser weapon designs are too unwieldy and temperamental for use as personal arms. Despite this, they hold several key advantages - they are sealed, easy to maintain, contain few specialised components, are practically unlimited in achievable intensity, and require only energy to fire continuously in almost any environment. These characteristics make them favourable to scavengers, explorers, and deep infiltration teams, all of which make extensive use of a particular, widespread pattern of laser - the channel beam.

Channel weapons often take the form of an elongated, lidded casing containg six distinct subassemblies, listed in order of beam development:
[SOURCE LINE] -- Resembles ballistic weapon magazines, an encased, tightly-wound packet of hot-running, high-efficiency laser tubes often extending downwards or to the side; it is designed for easy replacement, as the laser generators are the hottest-running, lowest-cost, and shortest-lived component in a channel configuration.
[CHARGER LINE] --Typically runs the whole length of the weapon, serving as a low-tolerance, high quality resonant chamber through which the generated light is effectively filtered prior to processing - a brute-force means of compensating for reduced source line quality from thermal fluctuations and accumulated defects. Both the placement and number of charger lines can in fact vary between weapons, but individual charger lines cannot accommodate multiple frequencies and so must be placed before the multiplier. 
[DECOMPRESSOR] -- temporally stretches the beam using a variety of conventional and esoteric techniques to minimise strain on the optics, extending component lifetime and allowing further amplification. This temporal stretching also allows portions of the beam to be specifically modified, and so is crucial to the next step in the beam path of a channel weapon.
[MULTIPLIER] -- multiplies the operating frequency of the incoming beam through various crystalline and atomic interactions. Though present in many laser weapon systems, in channel weapons the multiplier is of a particularly intricate construction - the incoming beam is transformed into a spatially expanded, geometrically tailored beam of a known, complex distribution.
[CONVERGER] -- exploits the known geometric correlation of the beam's spectral distribution to simultaneously temporally re-compress the beam using frequency-variable optical properties over the span of itself and the focusing array and apply further optic frequency manipulation techniques to select for specific, finalized weapon output wavelengths. It is the most vital and complex component of a channel weapon, providing it significant flexibility while eliminating the need for advanced optics at the cost of beam efficiency.
[FOCUSING ARRAY] -- focuses the output beam to extend the point of its maximum intensity on target. Unlike most high-complexity laser weapon systems, the lenses here are fully passive in action and control - range adjustment and temporal compression is performed solely by frequency manipulation within the multiplier and converger sections, allowing the focusing array to be built with high insensitivity to external damage and shock. Due to the range of frequencies and nonlinearities they are expected to manage, however, its lens efficiency is much lower than those of other systems; this requires it to be well-cooled, or at least carefully managed.

The product of these components is a compact, relatively rugged weapon capable of putting out powerful beams while retaining the flexibility to take advantage of a wide variety of internal and external optical phenomena - from 'burn-leading', the use of more closely-focused, lower-frequency beams to clear the path for following higher-frequency light, to 'blast-shaping', field optimisation of output beam profile at a given range to maximise penetrative efficiency in known materials.

channel weapons, like ballistics, take on a wide variety of forms; carbines, pistols, long rifles, and even carriage-mounted designs exist, but their solid-state construction and heat management limits their ability to fire shots of energies to what would be achieved by a similarly-sized chemical expansion ballistic. Instead, weapons of this type focus on tunability, penetrative efficiency and their ability to level extended barrages without interruption, an especially useful feature when fighting against diverse, swarming targets commonly encountered during derelict and ghost incursions.

.  Eigencyte Armour  .



.  Eigencyte Radiators  .

By shifting thermal fluctuations into the hyperspatial domain, radiator panels can be stacked within the confines of an eigengaol resonator without experiencing reabsorption effects; at the edge of the eigengaol domain, spatially displaced solitons collapse back into realspace and re-release the transformed energy. Much greater intensities of blackbody radiation can be emitted at a given temperature by eigencyte radiators in this way, but imperfections in eigengaol wall transparencies and resonant spectral linkages reduce radiative efficiency to the point that, for a given weight, foldable civilian-grade thermopanels exhibit superior heat dispersion characteristics.

The bulk and high domain coherence necessary for function of eigencyte radiators makes them costly to produce and maintain, requiring either large masses of high-thickness opthal thread or frequent re-stitching and supervision by Nracetric Idols to retain function. Due to this, they are seldom fitted to warships and installations; instead, they are primarily used in compact weapon systems and microphysics assemblies where increasing surface area of heated components is not a viable option within the dimensional constraints. High-powered microtanks, power armor, portable reactors, squad lasers, and spectrail sensors all use eigencyte panel stacks to function.

[Spectrail Sensor]: Spectrail sensors are a derivative of eigencyte panel stack technology, exploiting hyperspatial amplification within opaque eigencyte optics to maximise visibility of coherent hyperpenetrative neutral particles: neutrinos, muons, and other emissions indicative of high-energy technological phenomena. Capable of pinpointing weapons and power sources in dense, noisy environments, they are invaluable to those unfortunate enough to need them.


===  EIGENCYTE SYMPULSATOR - [eldritch flywheels for the mad]
The eigencyte sympulsator is a compact, hyperspatially-stabilised compulsator capable of reaching gigahertz rotation frequencies and delivering high-energy pulses to weaponry and physics assemblies. Though the casing can be of almost any size, the rotor diameter is must be less than a centimeter; although similar in base concept to large compulsators on ships and weapons platforms, their stabilisation mechanism ceases to function on large scales. Subspace interference is known to disrupt the function of eigencyte sympulsators: likelihood of explosive destabilisation at speed is expressed in half-lives, ranging from seconds to minutes.

Shortly after the creation of opthal thread, subspace experimentation on the quantum scale revealed a unique textural phenomenon: chambers insulated by cages of dense opthal yarn tended to suppress macroscale disturbances, while amplifying zero-energy fluctuations within hyperspatial resonances. Distinct in both action and principle from relic-tech echo nodes, such cages are common in the design of exotic electromechanical components - the eigencyte sympulsator among them.

The stabilisation mechanism of an eigencyte sympulsator exists between the rotor and stator, their woven edges serving as the defining volume of a grating hyperspatial resonator. Undisturbed, fluctuations within the caged domain destructively interfere due to the precise alignment of resonant paths within the cavity. When the rotation axis is disturbed, however, a quasitachyonic wavefield emerges within the chamber, amplified by dimensionally-constrained syntemporal loop resistance in the direction of rotor tilt; as it dissipates, instantaneous migration of the disturbance manifests as a self-compensating nonevent. Eigencyte sympulsators can reach extremely high velocities while enduring vibrations and disturbances that would vaporise a conventional compulsator; it is theorised that, presupposing the use (and existence) of angstrom-scale Navigator corpses, sympulse rotor edge velocities can approach the speed of light.

===  

[Device :: Three Mile (TM) Carbine]
A prolific, simplified design popularised by warlords of the post-Velaiisin era, the TM carbine consists of a bulky, hyperfrequency-generating oneirotech compulsator joined to the front of a rudimentary quantum-analog transducer node. Operable across vast distances with aid of almost any engine-room Idol,

.  Sparker Weapons  .

Sparker weapons employ self-refilling, detonation-driven microwave pulse cartridges to rapidly accelerate small, electrostatically stabilised droplets of dense, high-energy matter up to speeds of 2.5 km/s. The impact deforms the droplet and discharges its containment, causing it to detonate; the resultant cloud of glowing, corrosive vapours seeps through microfractures and weakens the surface against subsequent impact, fouling and shorting exposed and excavated optics and electronics. Individual droplets, possessing minute-long half-lives in their ready form, must be charged for several seconds before firing with either a power cell or hand-driven apparatus - the latter, though unwieldy, is favoured by many for its insensitivity to temperature and reduced risk of explosive discharge accidents. Multi-barrel and multi-chamber designs are common as a result, allowing wielders to quickly fire off volleys without resorting to bulkier, faster-charging systems of the kind used in sparker artillery and point defense systems.

Lacking in both versatility and range compared to conventional laser and ballistic weapons, sparker weapons - proliferated in antiquity by scavengers of relic fuel - are nevertheless a common weapon amongst YSD-affiliated officers, irregulars, and shipboard militias. Sparker weapons are compact, have low recoil for their effect, use few moving parts, and can be refilled practically anywhere there is fuel; their outsized popularity as sidearms, however, can be attributed to their spectacular impact on unarmoured and nanotech-infiltrated targets.

Due to the theoretical complexity of its underlying mechanisms, some techno-historians propose that the sparker was based off of a salvaged LoB prototype; given its rapid spread amidst the chaos and scarcity of the pre-consolidation era, however, it is likely that modern sparkers are descendants of a cheap, indigenously developed copycat design.
 