

[ WITHIN THE INSTANT OUR HOPES REST ]

.  Shipbursters  .

For all the achievements of the Directorate, it is not infallible - and in few places is this more clear than the glowing scrapyards left in the wake of every ghost dreadnought that drifts into inhabited space. Directorate rail slugs splatter against their impenetrable hulls, and viro-caskets, unable to deliver their payloads effectively at speed, rarely make it close enough to infect their systems. Enough mass, firepower, and pyrrhic determination can bring down a relic dreadnought, but even the most pride-bloated admiral will not put in jeopardy their status by considering acceptable the casualties such engagements incur - that is, with conventional weapons.

Shipbursters - massive weapons intended to end ships with a single, decisive strike - are an ancient phenomenon, synonymous with Yskiti civilization across all ages. Ranging from oversized mass drivers to esoteric sailing war-swarms, they are at once a techno-cultural zenith and a solemn reminder of life's fragility, derelicts buried and decaying amongst the unknown dead; many simply overwhelmed, too unwieldy to have a chance to fire in anger. Built for power and little else, they accumulate a degree of bulk and complexity too burdensome to use in what most would consider conventional warfare - but for all  simply is no other answer to the giants in the sky.

[ INVITE FROM DREAMS THE VOID'S DERISION ]

.  Large Horizon Point Extractors  .

Many things were made scarce by the ancient conflict that scoured the Yskit constellation, but extradimensional convergences were not one of them. Small black holes and artificial subspace-quantum anomalies litter the region, faded echoes of prehistoric AEGIS/League struggles; many have long dissipated or become unstable, but their comparative abundance and availability compared to large, natural subspace convergences has contributed towards the evolution of small, energy-intensive devices capable of utilizing them, developed in concert with Maxwell drives and similar technologies compensating their deficiencies.

Large horizon point (LHP) extractors act to magnify small quantum-subspace convergence anomalies into larger, if still comparatively small, traversible entryways into subspace. Due to their vast energy requirement, many are powered through the use of specially constructed esoteric bombs using eigengaol technology to disturb extradimensional, energetic whorls surrounding the subspace-quantum disturbance. This technique is typically highly destructive, and the apparatus must often be rebuilt by ship crews after just one use; despite this, their flexibility allows them to outcompete relic hyperdrives in the Yskit constellation. The bombs themselves do not supply sufficient energy for this process. Rather, they are catalysts intended to bring about dynamically favourable, transient interference singularities through the disruption and exploitation of energetic phenomena already existing in subspace. The resulting event bolsters the subspace-quantum anomaly, opening the now-pseudostable passage sufficiently for traversal of a vessel. LHP extractors can be operated from both realspace and subspace, and are used accordingly.

Due to dependence on extradimensional instabilities, large horizon point extractors are notoriously unpredictable and highly dependent on the skill of Idol navigators. A region can also become depleted of energetic subspace phenomena by overuse of LHPs, rendering natural accumulation of trade and capital past a certain point nearly impossible. (See [Citadels] for *artificial* nexi of subspace travel, and their role in Yskit history.) However, free from the need for large and stable subspace convergence phenomena, Yskit navigators are much more flexible in their routing options; in the words of many a lighthouse adept, there is no place known to the deep sky unoccupied by stranded fools.

The small size and relative simplicity of the LHP extractor, made possible by heavy Yskit dependence on Idols and shogachdjinn-guided technology, allows for even small kiloscale vessels to make economical journeys over long distances when piloted by reliable crews; at the same time, their unpredictability and limited ability to construct wide, long-lived passages makes the construction of larger ships a difficult prospect, with the complexity of extractor designs rising dramatically with size. Due to this, the YSD struggles to muster significant concentrations of fleet power relative to other powers; even now, at the height of Directorate power, a head-on fight with any hyperspace-capable power more than half its size  is unlikely to go in their favour. It is in part due to this fact that the history of siege warfare in the Yskit constellation is so rich, and territorial expansion beyond the Yskit constellation so limited - even with an emphasis on forward base construction, the ability to conduct offensive operations has always been, and continues to be, poor.

[ ALIGN THE STARS THAT BRING US VISION ]

.  Maxwell Drives  .

A key component of any free-navigating Yskiti vessel, the Maxwell drive is a vast, Idol-controlled core assembly of semiactive nested polyhedral eigengaols. Enabled by the nullifying effect of successive eigengaols, realspace yields to the arbitrary dimensions of subspace as one travels towards the centre of the Maxwell drive; each inner eigengaol layer is constructed to match the dimensional character of the altered space, with the innermost layers exhibiting hyperdimensional geometry of such intricacy and complexity that none but the most heavily personality-scorched Idols can attempt to comprehend it without falling to madness.

Maxwell drives allow Yskiti vessels to maneuver freely through subspace, generating net impulse by flickering eigengaol polygonal faces to selectively admit and resist subspace currents along hyperdimensional axes unapproachable by realspace geometries. Control of the flickering process is taken up by a diverse array of systems, ranging from Idol-supervised banks of relic-tech computers to Gachdjinnic ritual machines controlled through the puppet-strings of Idols condemned to its operation. When breached in realspace, dimensional contraction of Maxwell drive cores can trigger catastrophic, explosive cascades; though the properties of Maxwell drives render them resistant to individual disturbances, few risk moving them from their traditional place at the heart of the ship.

As hyperdimensional devices, Maxwell drives cannot be assembled while their interiors are exposed to realspace. Each layer must be carefully built-up from the outside in, relying on purpose-built hyperdimensional robotic eigensystems that self-assemble from components and reconfigure themselves in response to expanding dimensionality within the core before ultimately dissolving and self-venting through higher-dimensional gaps during 'quenching' - the final step in the completion of a Maxwell drive core, exposure to the currents of subspace.

The origin of the Maxwell drive is uncertain, with similar drives using eigengaol-like mechanisms dating back before the first Yskiti unification - though the technology has benefited from more clearly attributable technical and theoretical advancements, its unconventional principle and otherworldly method of construction has been a subject of extensive speculation amongst techno-historians, with some even proposing an extradimensional origin.
