[I SEE IT I SEE IT I SEE IT I SEE IT I SEE IT]

.  Lighthouse Territorial Correction [LTC]  .

Formerly a vast, centralised institution charged with frontier defence and patrol, the Lighthouse was the pride of the Duandaissa, predecessors of the present Directorate. Central to its operation was a colossal quantum-analog oracle, a singularly massive shogachdjinn tended by hundreds of thousands of Idols. Its instruction, like much interpreted through subspace links, seldom coincided neatly with reality - but presented with the task of reifying the chaotic and the anomalous, its effectiveness was undeniable. The security it brought allowed Duandasin to reach the heights of its golden age, but this did not last forever. The oracle was ultimately rendered nonfunctional, crippled by the abrupt and unexplained consumption of its god; when the Lighthouse fell into disarray, the rest of Duandasin fell with it.

Though bereft of much of its former glory, the institution of the Lighthouse outlasted Duandasin and continues to operate under Directorate sponsorship. No longer tied to a central nexus, their agents - and by extent, the Lighthouse's mission - have since spread across many roles, ranging from civil enforcement to foreign espionage; in less populated regions they continue to operate as frontier administrators, filling the gap between local security and the distant bureaucracy of the Directorate. Senior agents and associates of the Lighthouse are widely valued for both their skills and their connections, and are often sought out by Directorate officers seeking to perform fieldwork and reconnaissance in unstable and hostile territory.

The organisational hierarchy of the modern Lighthouse is largely unchanged from that of the Duandasin era. With its centrepiece no longer functional, however, it behaves in practice as a distributed, decentralised collection of independent cells, headed primarily by the Lighthouse Accessors - once interpreters of printed instruction, now responsible for the organisation and leadership of operations and investigations.