--- The Directorate

The Directorate consists an eclectic, closed hierarchy of distant, unsympathetic bureaucrats - heavily cyborgised tributes raised from an early age in isolated stations, taught and trained over several decades to monitor and suppress political, physical, and metaphysical influences within the YSD before being appointed to positions reflecting their examination results. Many end up crewing various Directorate ships and stations, taking up technical and lower administrative positions; those who succeed rise to the position of Director, and are granted their own PAUM with which to perform their work.

A Director, while participant in the consular hierarchy of the greater Directorate and its forces, does not take on traditional roles of governance - while capable of declaring executive mandates and assuming direct control of planetary governments (typically in cooperation with a number of other directors), their primary duties are to advise and oversee subordinate institutions. Violent enforcement and politicking is occasionally necessary to progress one's agenda, but an experienced director will have little need of it. Even the most hare-brained of directors can quickly put internal dissent into a stranglehold using the influence and oneirotechnological abilities granted by their PAUMs; doing this without setting back the Directorate as a whole is another matter.

At any given time, there exist 6,846 individuals holding the title of Director - a number maintained separately from the availability of Panopticon units, defined in a staffing mandate created under advisement of [Scarlet Rains] in 0297 DT.


--- DUANDASIN

The first unified governments of the Yskit Constellation were little more than informal alliances - a tacit understanding of the consequences of failing to provide mutual aid. One by one, they rose and fell - each succumbing to the tides of madness still sweeping the dwarf cluster, overwhelmed by the pressures placed upon them by the twisted and the lost drifting in from the void. This period would last one thousand years: each collapse leaving the consolidated worlds in shambles, a lucky few remaining to pick up the pieces.

Duandasin, last and greatest among them, was an intersection of hubris and necessity - its citadel shrouded an entire star, many trillions dedicating their lives to the dream it represented. Universal protection, universal representation, universal contribution in the light of its great Lighthouse: these were the promises from which its god was moulded, to which every tool of the consolidated worlds was given. Its members would give themselves wholly to the thrall of its narrative, above which there was known no greater unity. Loyalty was no object - they would move as one, strike as one, rise and fall as one without question. Yet even this did not last; having caught the attention of something even further beyond, its god fell ill - broken, then devoured.

Duandasin succumbed shortly after; the surviving leadership, scarred and disillusioned, would go on to establish what would eventually become the Directorate.